---
id: "277"
slug: "2005-07-tower"
title: "Tower"
date: 2005-07-29T09:18:00.000Z



tags:

  - "General"
---
<div class="sqs-html-content">
  <p>I have just finished listening to <em>Song of Susannah</em> by Stephen King, and I think the Dark Tower story is brilliant.  It has also sold me on audio books, because although I am sure I could appreciate Midworld and the Ka-tet had I read it, this has been a great experience.
I also seem to have gotten over my initial disapointment infused with anger when I popped the earphones in and started listening to <em>Wolves of the Calla</em> and heard George Guidall instead of Frank Muller.  Man was I pissed.  After I researched the circumstances and found that Frank was in a motorcycle accident and can barely speak that my anger was directed toward Stephen King for taking so damn long to finish writing.  I eventually came to realize since Iam so late to this Dark Tower party that George Guidall had narrated the version of <em>The Gunslinger</em> that I had listened to as well, and he is good, very good.  But I really got into the world when Frank was doing the narrating, and it was irritating the way Eddie Dean's inflections had changed, but all that has receded, because as I said George Guidall does a fine job, although it took a book and a half for me to get over that.</p>
<p>I am very anxious to get my ipod wrapped around the final volume of this work.  I never thought much of Stephen King, I mean I knew he was successful so I had respect for that, but I just went with my tendency to assume something that <strong>everybody</strong> likes is probably sub par. (e.g. reality television, or most of television in general)  But anyway I am blown away by the Dark Tower, and I suspect I will read quite a bit more of Mister King's work now.</p>
<p>So any way to King: Hile wordslinger!  Thank ye Sai, big big.</p>
</div>
