---
commentId: "177-4"
postId: "177"
name: "glad to be  gone"
ip: "72.82.37.138"
date: 2008-03-30T10:48:32.000Z
email: "a@b.com"
url: "http://google.com"
---
<p>I am glad that i quit working for that Co.  It actually used to be not so bad.  Now that company is becoming more of a joke.  Yes with just about ANY company customer service is under trained and over abused, but it has become a major issue.  The sad fact is that there were many good employees at Cavtel, the only problem is that they have their hands tied behind their back or have been laid off.  In saving money they laid off most of their business customer service and parts of residential customer care to send it down to Florida where the wages, education, and I swear at times, common sense are much lower than its main office.  Also when the switch happened, they didn't start training the people in FL in prep of the switch.  They just cold switched and it was sink or swim baby with real customer accounts.  What is that crap.  Poor management is what that is.
Also on the subject of poor management.  The owner of cavtel made a deal so he could purchase a company called Talk America based out of Michigan.  In the deal the owner of Cavtel would step aside and let the owner of TA run Cavtel.  So wait a minute, TA went to crap because its owner was running TA into the ground with poor management and that was affecting profit and the ability to maintain it's equipment.  So Cavtel allows it sellf to be led by same said person just to grab the new customer base and it picks up new, old equipment that runs at lower standards and is not able to meet the standards of Cavtels equip.  Now all of the techs have to learn new, crappy equipment that is in a region dominated by ATT. ATT does weird stuff to the people in that state, constantly screwing with the lines and putting people out of service no matter who they pay their bill to.  It really feels like sabotage on Cavtel and the customer is the one in the middle.</p>
<p>ALso one other point I would like to bring up in some defense of the company.  When people tell about their horror stories of it taking forever for service to be turned on, that is 4 out of 5 times the fault of Verizon or ATT depending on where you live.  People do not relize that ATT or Verizon are the owners of all the copper lines that run through out their neighborhood.  Not Cavtel, or Vonage, or WOW, or whatever other Telco is offering it self in the region. the only way to escape VZ or ATT is to use a cable company.  Which is usually Comcast.  Which is costly and sucks.  So when people complain about it taking 3 weeks for DSL to be hooked up and the tech doesn't show that is ATT or VZ. If you sign up for VZ dsl it takes, lo and behold 3 weeks with possible missed commitments. how do i know i have VZ DSL.  Also when Cavtel sends ATT or VZ out on a DSL service call. they often report back" dial tone good to customer", that is not what is the problem is.  Continuity and digital signals are.  I personlly would not be surprised if VZ tells it techs that Cavtel customers are not worth the effort because the more angry they are the more likely that they will pay more to have VZ or ATT back.  this is one of the reasons tjhat call times are terrible at Cavtel.  This is just part of the insight of being behind the wall.  Peace Out.</p>
<p>PS. why is it that a lot of the complaints against Cavtel in other forums are people that have 20 modems, the money to keep bouncing between companies with all the reconnect fees / have 2 HSI connections, or can't spell worth a crap out of the philly ghetto.  Makes me wonder where the average Joe is.</p>