---
commentId: "812-4"
postId: "812"
name: "Michelle"
ip: "71.175.43.244"
date: 2009-09-19T05:37:04.000Z
email: "michelle@mcallister.ws"

---
<p>Richard,</p>
<p>I am Kevin's wife &amp; I did tell her that I totally understood why she was quitting.  If she can't make money for her family, then she needs to be doing something where she can.  I know her family should be her top priority so while I was disappointed to be losing such a great doctor, I could not be angry at her about it.  I also told her that there was NO way that I would yell at her for this.  I know her level of care &amp; I know that had NOTHING to do with her practice closing.  I was shocked when she said that several parents were screaming at her that day; I could not imagine any rational reason to do such a thing.</p>
<p>Her response was that while she needs to begin making money for her family (she hasn't brought in an income from the 2 year old practice at all), she said that she also was concerned with the 300 families that she cares for.  She wanted to be able to bring them/us the highest level of care &amp; is getting to the point where she can't financially do it.</p>
<p>Her main concern was that the community would not totally shut her out, as she lives in the area &amp; her children attend the local schools.  She basically wanted to know if we'd still say hi if we saw her on the street.  With the level of care, kindness &amp; concern that she has given my kids, me &amp; my family in the past 3 years (we saw her at a practice prior to her solo one), she deserves more than a simple hello.  We exchanged personal info &amp; will stay in touch, with me forever hoping that she goes back into pediatric medicine (she's going to be an er doc in the city) while my kids are young enough.</p>